foreign is just that very simple impulse
that's moving us that moves us to have a
closer relationship with our loved ones
it is a constant pull that leads us all
the way down the developmental line if
we allow it it'll take us all the way to
freedom
welcome to the art of accomplishment
where we explore how deepening
connection with ourselves and others
leads to creating the life we want with
enjoyment and ease I'm Brett Kistler
here today with my co-host Joe Hudson
thank you
if you look at all the bad habits that
you've been trying to stop for a decade
you'll find they all have one thing in
common they're all things you're telling
yourself you should stop doing the same
is likely true for the things you tell
yourself you should be doing more of
finishing a project going to the gym
calling your mom what if thinking you
should is what keeps you stuck and what
if getting in touch with your wants in a
deep way is the quickest way to get
unstuck let's get to the bottom of this
so Joe I would think this is pretty
obvious but you usually have a unique
definition of things so what exactly do
you mean by should yeah should is a
a mechanism of Shame it's it is there's
a saying that says the
shame is the locks that keep the chains
of bad habits in place so should is like
a
a really bad management technique
it's uh it's energetically it's
oppressive
intellectually it's control based
emotionally it's rigidity
and neurologically it's a threat right
so
if you say to somebody you should really
do that there is a threat in that and is
what's interesting is that same energy
really doesn't happen in certain
cultures
um when you see particularly like more
indigenous cultures that I've been a
part of and seen that there's like a
that whole like should telling people
thing just doesn't happen at least
energetically it doesn't happen
and when I mean energetically I don't
mean energetically like in a spiritual
New Age way I just literally mean like
the energy in which you are talking to
the person
yeah so that that's what I think it is
and you're right they are the things
that keep your bad habits in place
should so just really
ineffective and I'll tell you the story
where I learned this I was like 26 years
old and uh I decided I was going to be
like brutally honest with myself and so
I wrote down a list of everything about
myself that I that I didn't want to
admit to about myself and then I
folded it away and I put it away and I
found it like six months maybe a year
later and I went through the list and I
was like how many of these things have
changed and remarkably like most of them
had and I was like wow that's amazing I
did nothing and they just changed just
the recognition of them changed
awareness changed them and then I looked
through all the ones that hadn't changed
and to a t each single one of them had a
very heavy should attached to it
and that's when I started to realize
that
this way of managing ourselves by
telling ourselves we should do things is
just really ineffective so to keep it
simple around the definition of should
we're talking about the moment that we
tell ourselves that we should do
something you know the voice in the head
will tell you that you should do
something and that's like the most
obvious thing but there's also kind of
an energetic should that happens it's
like it's almost a muscular response or
a
neurological response to something
and it doesn't always have to have the
verbal you should do this you know you
could just reach for the
double flourless chocolate cake and
you'll just feel that kind of inside of
you and that that is just a non-verbal
should so I think it's really important
to see it as as both
and what's what's wrong with like
controlling ourselves in this way if
these shoulds are kind of pointing us
towards the things that we want or don't
want to be doing what's what's causing
that to get in the way it's because you
put an extra layer on it if you're just
in the wants it's an amazing
fluid thing and when it gets into the
shoulds it creates the threat like I
said and a rigidity so as an example
right if I try to control uh a
two-year-old and I have that energy of
like
you will do this you should do this you
should do this there's one of two
responses that happen in any human if I
did it to you right now hey you should
speak differently on this podcast
right it immediately creates one of two
things in you all right let's do it for
the audience here you should be
listening to this podcast better you are
not paying close enough attention
if I'm treating you like that there's
one of two responses one of those
responses is going to be Rebellion
there's just something innaten us it's
like
no no right response so okay that's not
a really effective way to create
anything is just creating no's and the
other way the other thing that it does
is you're like oh you're right I should
have
and it's good the submission
and it's not surrender it's submission
it's like I am weak and I will just do
what you say and then you've got a whole
bunch of disempowered people and that
doesn't really help much either
right so especially if you're in a
company you want a company full of
empowered people or you want um
Community full of empowered people or
you want yourself to feel empowered so
every time you're using the should
what's happening is that you are either
creating your own internal Rebellion
which is why you haven't done the things
you've been telling yourself you should
do for decades
because you're rebelling against it or
you're creating a disempowered
situation inside yourself and so you're
creating more of a victim mentality to
this voice in your head that's being
abusive interesting what I noticed about
myself is that when I when I think about
like not telling myself what I should do
or shouldn't do anymore those becomes
this fear that I'll just become lazy or
some kind of couch potato or I just
won't do the things that I should do
yeah because I use that word you know
it's a totally exactly and what's your
response to that what what happens if we
if we stop doing the should if we stop
like setting out a path for what we want
from ourselves from a perspective of
being conscious of you know the risks or
the threats
yeah so right this is that inherent
goodness thing that we've spoken about
before which is basically that the idea
is that you are a lazy slob piece of
[__]
like just gonna like pick your ass and
like live off of other people unless you
tell yourself you should do something
you know what I mean like could you
imagine if you thought about somebody
else that way you know unless I tell Joe
that he should do a podcast
he he's just never gonna [__] do it
so I gotta tell him he should do it it
is like it's a nonsensical thing to
really think like here I am telling
doing this podcast nobody told me I
should do it I wanted to do it and if
you think about like kids from zero to
eight years old there's no internal
should and they're doing all sorts
they're developing crazy amounts
compared to any other time in life
they're learning all sorts of things and
it's all just because they're following
their wants
so on one level that's a really
important thing to note on the other
thing you you actually may become a
couch potato for a while which sounds a
little weird but the thing is if you
have been under
threat for an extended period of time
there's going to be a need to relax
there's going to be a need to recover
so if you're going cold turkey on your
shoulds yeah it's you might actually
just need to slow down for a bit it's
not going to be a couch potato
the couch potato thing happens when you
burn out and then you tell yourself you
shouldn't be burning out you should you
shouldn't you should stop playing the
video games you should stop laying on
the couch you should stop you should
stop you should stop then you really
will go into full Couch Potato mode if
the natural burnout happens with the
should then it it looks like depression
so there might be a time where you need
some more rest where you need to recover
and you see this happen in schools all
the time when there's this thing called
unlearning or unschooling or something
like that where kids are taken out of
the school that are burnt out and they
take like five or six months and do very
little and then all of a sudden they
learn three or four times as quickly as
they were in school and there's lots of
studies on this so it's really
you're basically saying if I don't put
myself under threat of a should
if I don't tell myself that I'm bad if I
don't then I won't and it's just not my
experience at all my experience is that
people who are most generative in their
life
are people who want to do [__] not who
feel like they should do them yeah so it
sounds like there's like a it takes time
to shift paradigms of thinking this sort
of reminds me of a little bit of a
thought experiment of like you know hold
on a second that may be true that may
not be true don't don't assume that one
though at least for people listening for
me turning off the shoulds in my in the
voice in my head was very quick it
didn't take a tremendous amount of time
once I really just understood oh
this [__] doesn't work right it's like
then you know if if you know that you
have a screw gun and every time you use
the screw gun it strips screws you're
pretty much not going to use that screw
guy it's not going to take a lot of time
to figure that out
um if you start telling yourself you
should stop using shoulds yeah it could
take years yeah yeah that makes sense
this kind of reminds me of this uh the
thought experiment of having having the
voice in your head be a roommate and if
you were to go to like you know talk to
somebody like a roommate or a friend and
they were the kind of person that's just
going to tell you what you should do
versus the kind of person that helps you
find what you want yeah then you know
you might either stop going to that
person because it doesn't feel like
you're really getting helped or you
might become dependent on them telling
what you should do right yeah most
humans would just move out yeah yeah but
there are some some of us are engineered
or programmed too
give up our own empowerment for a person
like that but yeah yeah that's right
like like most of us who had a boss who
spoke to us like the that should voice
in our head we would quit or we would be
miserable if that should voice in your
head is really strong and really loud
there is a strong case that you're
miserable whether you see it or not
right so as we release ourselves from
the oppression of these shoulds and we
start listening to what we want and
trusting that our wants are inherently
good and healthy for us let's get into
the wants side of this then how would
you define wants the want is just that
impulse that moves through you that
animates your actions that is what the
want is
and the should is just this egoic layer
on top of it that slows the whole thing
down so let me explain you're sitting
and you thought think to yourself I
should exercise
what's actually happening is there's an
impulse and a want to exercise and it
shows up and instead of just like oh
cool and
doing 10 jumping jacks
you say to yourself I should go to the
gym and then that just destroys your
chances of actually working out or at
least very much lowers your chances
of working out so the want is just that
very simple impulse that's moving us
that moves that eight-year-old
that five-year-old that three-year-old
it moves the toddler
to walk better it moves the crawler to
toddle it moves us to speak it moves us
to have a closer relationship with our
loved ones it is a constant pull that
leads us all the way down the
developmental line if we allow it if we
allow it it'll take us all the way to
Awakenings and
and freedom and what if uh what if I'm
you know listening to my want and my
want is to have a big piece of chocolate
cake that's a really good question
there's one other piece that I think is
really important to explain wants to be
able to answer that question and the
thing is is that
wants are somatically expansive they're
intellectually empowering
the want
is very different if you attach to it or
if you don't attach to it
so if you attach to say
having that girlfriend Jennifer
then you're in craving which is
different than want
so the want is just that impulse it's
just that like empowering expansive
impulse
so if you look at the cake
and you're in that like empowering
expansive thing
that's very different than the way most
people want a cake what they think is
wanting a cake
which is this either this struggle I
want it but I don't want I want it I
don't want I want it I don't want it
that's not that's not a clean want
there's still some refinement that needs
to go there or there's just like that
unconscious shoving the cake in their
mouth
and calling it a want so
the want is something that feels very
expansive so if you look at something
like a chocolate cake and it feels very
expensive to sit and eat that thing then
yeah follow the want because the thing
about the wants in general is that they
you have to follow them to deepen into
them so what that means is you want to
follow the chocolate cake because you
want to have this sense pleasure
great have the sense of pleasure
and then you start finding out what the
deeper sense Pleasures are
you follow that want home and you find
out it has
seven more beautiful siblings
so if the want is clean it doesn't
matter if it's a short-term or a
long-term
healthy in your mind in your superego
it's far more about allowing that
movement so you can find the next step
right you can't want to run unless you
wanted to learn how to walk
you have to actually get to the walking
point to have an effective Next Level
want
and that's how it works is though the
wants move us so
a toddler they just want to walk and
walk well maybe maybe as a toddler you
want to run
but then you can want to play baseball
and then you can want to play basketball
really really well
and so it's the same thing with our
wants when we start really getting in
touch with our wants then they really
transform you know it's like the one is
I want a million dollars and there's
some shame with that and so it's not a
clear impulse what and then we're like
what is that clear impulse it's like oh
I want to be empowered sounds very
relevant to a career path as well
something I heard a story recently from
a friend who's a lawyer and halfway
through their first semester they were
like okay this is I'm not going to do
this I don't want to be a lawyer this
sucks
um and the experience was they were like
these are all the things that I have to
do to get like
to where you know this path is supposed
to put me and it doesn't look fun at all
so they right this person described that
they
they simply stopped caring about what
they were supposed to be doing and they
started paying attention to what they
actually wanted and they were like
actually there's all kinds of things
that I want to be doing that I could do
if I was enabled with this law degree
and so they started kind of just making
it there they took all the classes they
wanted that nobody else was taking yeah
and ended up kind of on some trends that
they were ahead of their game on or
ahead of the trend on
yeah uh as a result of following the way
they wanted to be a lawyer and they
ended up really loving their career
that's exactly right if you're doing
your shoulds and you're basically
following rigidity you're following
um a tightness
and you're going to have that kind of
tight life you're going to have a life
that's very that's a very rigid life and
if you're following your wants your life
becomes much more expansive
I like what you had been saying about uh
craving as well it sounds like craving
as distinct from wants is like a craving
is a want that you don't want
but you really don't want it
yeah there's there's a thing about the
want right so if you just take the want
viscerally and you don't try to get
there you don't try to get to the end
if you just take the want viscerally you
you can feel it let's actually let's do
this for a second right so if you close
your eyes
and you feel a really deep want inside
of you
have a deep one not a superficial one
but like a very deep one like maybe
a want for a deeper form of intimacy or
a want for
a more expansive Consciousness or a want
for more love in your life
and you feel that want
and you take it in
and you don't worry about whether you
can get it or not you don't even think
about how to get it
you just feel what it is to want
ing is just a feeling like anger or
sadness it's just like just allow that
feeling in your system without trying to
get to the
goal
that experience is really Pleasant
it's really quite lovely
it's to me the way it works in my system
is it is
one of the closest feelings to love
to allow a desire deeply inside of you I
think it's why so many of the the uh
Sufi poets they talk about desire in
this like like this way that they just
love desire
so this longing because that longing is
so close to love it's so close to that
expansive acceptance of everything and
so that's what wanting is now I gotta
get it how do I get it why can't I get
it
that's craving and that's painful as
[__]
yeah yeah this reminds me of like a lot
of different spiritual Traditions that
tell us that craving is a hindrance to
Freedom like for example buddhism's
principle of non-attachment or
Christianity is warnings about the
desires of the flesh yeah is that what
they mean yeah so there's there's those
spiritual traditions and then there's
like the tantric spiritual traditions
and they people think that they're at
odds but they're really not at odds at
all what's happening there is that
people have
been beaten out of their wants and so
they start turning Cravings into
an excuse not to want to not allow
themselves to want anymore but if you're
really
deeply closely looking into your own
personal experience
the craving is the thing that they're
talking about and the wanting the desire
that the sufis are talking about the
tantric people are talking about is
they're two different things that are
happening inside of your system
that's right yeah it's interesting that
the exercise that we just did about the
wanting of my for myself I was thinking
about like having a healthy body and
being
um Being Fit and having strength yeah
and in feeling the wanting I was I was
like imagining moving my body and having
having range of motion and flexibility
and strength and the moment I started
trying to figure out how I was going to
get there
yeah then all of a sudden it turned into
oh but I'd have to work out it's like
suddenly the working out feels like a
chore
right the actual wanting of being
healthy that the way that I was
imagining that was actually working out
was the equivalent of moving and using
my body
exactly and if you just stick with that
as a daily practice like
how do I want to be in my body right now
and you just 30 minutes of how do I want
to be in my body right now
would get you exactly where you want to
be in your body
and how much more appealing is that I
have to work out today or
how do I want to be in my body for 30
minutes
it seems like it's almost no different
and it's like worlds and Worlds Apart
right let's get this into into the
context of business and like uh
achievement a tremendous amount of
successful executives are deeply
attached to winning and succeeding and
it seems to be working well for them in
many regards how would you factor that
into this
right yeah there's people who tell
themselves they should do stuff and
apparently they're pretty successful at
it or they're deeply attached
they have a deep craving and they're
successful at getting their Cravings met
so for me it's pretty simple there is
the intention which is critical
so I'm not suggesting to drop all
intention in life
and so we have our intention we have
that want we have the impulse and that's
a really really important thing it's it
gives us a North star it gives us a a
heading that we moved down and to hold
that intention is absolutely completely
important to getting stuff done in the
world of accomplishing stuff in the
world
being attached to succeeding is
absolutely a fine way to succeed it's
not the most efficient way to succeed
it is not the most enjoyable way to
succeed
but it is absolutely a fine way to
succeed so you can really really get
attached to something you can work at it
and you can get there and in fact it's
really important to have some of that if
you're going to get anywhere in life and
and that's the intention
so you can have that intention without
that craving without that deep
attachment and if you don't have it
you're you're lucky to get anywhere so
that intention is really quite important
but if you're going to put attachment on
top of that intention on top of that
want then you are dragging then you are
like throwing an anchor out and sailing
across the ocean with your anchor out it
is not going to be the most effective so
the real thing is
that intention like what is the context
of it and
um what's the way that you make it most
enjoyable so let me give you an example
so if I look at every single CEO that I
know who has been very very successful
their intention wasn't to make money
they weren't attached to making money
what they were attached to was being the
best or beating their competition or
reducing carbon in the world or being
the best at customer service they had
some sort of intention that got what
that was passed
this intention of just succeeding so
their attachment was beyond succeeding
because if you're just attached to the
succeeding part it's a lot more
difficult if succeeding is something
that you have to do to get to the part
that you're attached to
then it's easier so the attachment isn't
the most efficient way to get to where
you want to go
to have that strong attachment
and it's definitely not the most
enjoyable
way to get get to where you want to go
but the intention absolutely critical
does that make sense yeah yeah totally
it seems like having having the
intention versus having the attachment
to success the intention makes it easier
to Pivot like if your intention is to
build a company or build a product that
reduces carbon in the world there are
many ways to do that and you could start
out with one idea of doing it and
discover that there's different ways of
doing it or that one one of them just
isn't working in the market
and it seems like it would be easier to
go through the sort of
like get caught get out of the local
Optimum
or maybe you just have to let go of what
you are doing and start something new
which is just really common in any kind
of business Endeavor this idea of
pivoting and flowing with reality but if
you're really attached to a particular
success then you might be
more resistant to make changes of course
that seem in the short term to lead away
from your goal of success yeah that's
right so that's right so you have your
intention you have your intention out
there that's where you know which way
you're going we'll call that like the
goal or the want that intention is kind
of what's moving you in the direction
and then you can have different
attitudes towards that goal towards that
want the attitude could become a should
the attitude could be I'm scared of the
getting to the goal I'm angry that I
don't haven't gotten to the goal I have
absolute faith that I will be there all
of those ways are different attitudes
towards having that goal you're not
going to get there without the goal but
the most efficient attitude
to get to the goal is to be in the want
of it not the [__] of it
it is to be in the enjoyment of it not
the rigidity of it
that's the more efficient way to get
there and and to be beyond the goal
itself
is that that goal of succeeding is
really just a necessary step to get to
your deeper goal so give me some more
examples of of holding an intention
without the should
so you're running a company and you have
a revenue goal of
100 million dollars
you can hold that as I should get to a
hundred million dollars you can hold
that goal as I want to get to 100
million dollars you can hold that goal
as I will get to 100 million dollars
you can hold that goal as I can't wait
till I get to 100 million dollars so
that the way you hold that goal is going
to affect how much energy you have it's
going to affect how rigid you are in it
it's going to affect your ability to be
flexible
and then the second level of it is
choosing that goal
as far as whether you're going to make
that like the easy goal or the long-term
goal so are you saying I want to get a
hundred million dollars just to get 100
million dollars are you saying I want to
get a hundred million dollars so that I
can build a spaceship to get to Mars or
are you saying I want to get 100 million
dollars so I can beat the competition so
all of those things are important so
it's not the intention or the goal it is
how you
approach the goal how you attach to the
goal
the relationship you have with the goal
that's the important piece for
efficiency and enjoyment
and feeling like you should be doing
this prescriptive path towards the goal
is is controlling yourself with with
threat essentially
correct that's right and it could work
short term but it's definitely not going
to work long term that's right what
makes it that we don't see the
inefficiency of our shoulds when we're
in them like if if it is the case that
you know everything that we don't do in
life that we want to do and everything
that we do do that we want to stop doing
is all locked in place by these shoulds
what makes it so
opaque to us yeah it's it's a shame
situation the way that you can look at
it is even if you take it up a level for
a second so what's the important thing
about having the intention what's the
important thing about having the goal is
that it tells you what questions to ask
so if I say to you you need to start a
company
and that company needs to
sell widgets to 10 people
then you're going to ask questions
to get to that goal but if I say you
need to sell widgets to 100 million
people you're going to ask different
questions you're going to say huh maybe
I have to think about Venture Capital
maybe I have to think about private
Equity maybe I have to think about you
know distribution at that scale that
you're not going to have to think about
if you're selling 10 widgets so the goal
is important because it very very much
helps us determine what questions to ask
and that's why goals are so important
but what most people do is they put some
shame into those goals tell themselves
they should reach the goals
not that they want to not that they can
but that they should reach the goals and
then all of a sudden those goals become
a burden they become like oh if I don't
do that I'm bad
and so that's what makes it hard for us
to see the shoulds is that it's just it
it makes us think that we're bad the
should makes us think that we're bad and
if we think that we're bad it's very
hard to see what actually motivates us
right it's the same thing like in Wars
right if two countries are warring with
each other and
that whole War has to depend on people
thinking the other side is bad
if people look up and say you know what
they're just people we're just people
we're just both trying to get along the
war is going to stop
so to have that internal war of should
means that you have to think you're bad
and that's what makes it so hard to see
through the should to see through the
war right what's really strange about it
is that you can see it from a manager 10
10 miles away right you're sitting there
and you see a manager like remember you
should you should you should you're like
oh my God that's not gonna work that's
horribly ineffective there's been
hundreds of management books saying
don't do that because it doesn't
freaking work and in psychological
studies but we'll do it to ourselves all
freaking day long and we will recognize
it outside but we won't recognize it
inside
yeah it's as if the uh the moment we
stay we should be doing something we are
immediately like the structure of that
should is to flatten all of our wants to
go do that one thing because we've
prioritized it but if if we are
routinely doing that thing where we're
suppressing our wants to do the thing we
should do then we can't hear or feel our
wants anymore yeah that's right and and
the wants are just kind of a for many of
us are very very scary it's a very scary
thing to have a want because we were
taught at a young age not to have ones
we don't have that want because mom
won't be happy you don't have that want
because you won't be codependent with
that don't have that want because
blah blah blah blah blah right there's
just a lot of people are told to
disassociate from their wants they're
not they're not taught that their wants
are amazingly beautiful things that can
guide them in their entire life yeah
let's talk more about that like what
makes wanting so vilified in our society
my experience is that it's it's there's
a pain that we feel from being rejected
in our wants it's like a deep level of
rejection
so we're all kind of school kids that
got deeply rejected you know when we
asked someone out on a date and so we're
like hesitant to do it again
because our wants are this deeply
intimate thing they're there's very
vulnerable thing and they are at the
core of us and if they've been rejected
we don't want to feel that rejection
again
so I think that's the internal process
externally
if you have a whole bunch of people who
are codependent or
whole bunch of people who were told that
they were selfish as kids which really
if you're told that you were selfish as
a kid that really just means that you
weren't doing what your mom and dad
wanted you to do
but if you were told that then having
somebody own their wants is very
uncomfortable for you and so there's a
kind of this external world that is
uncomfortable with people owning their
wants
and there's also this external world of
people who like just can't wait for that
person to be
to be owning their wants some more it's
kind of like rock and roll right so back
in the day rock and roll was there and
there's these people who shut up and
they're like I'm gonna get whatever I
want I want to you know do this and do
that and
and there's this group of people like
yes and there's a group of people like
Devil and that's how it works when
you're really owning your wants
um especially the earlier wants the
later ones is the ones start to refine
and start to become more and more
beautiful
then it's a little bit less likely to
happen but we all start with the early
wants and to own them gets a certain
level of rejection because other people
would have to feel their own wants and
the thing about wants in general is that
it's our human nature to want
like if you you can play this game with
friends and you just after every
sentence just say what it is that you
wanted to get out of that sense and you
will find a want in every single
sentence that you speak like right now I
want to have you guys understand what
I'm saying right now I want you to taste
the Deep pleasure of wanting so there's
always this subconscious want behind
almost every sense we have it is such a
part of our human nature we cannot get
away from it all we can do is own it
or we can sublimate it and should is
just a way of supplementing it which is
why it doesn't work as effectively
right and so
and so I'm going to say something right
now because I want to participate in
this podcast and feel relevant
want to respond so that you know that I
love you and I care for you I want to
end the pregnant pause
[Laughter]
um well a lot of what you were saying
about like the the societal aspect is
that it's uncomfortable for people to
feel their wants and part of what that
what it is is you know people have a
problem seeing other people want what
they want because that makes them feel
the pain of their own wants and the pain
of our own wants seems to be linked to
something we've discussed on some other
episodes uh the consequences of wanting
like the potential consequence if I want
something I might not get it I might
have to feel disappointment I might feel
I might be judged
I might you know break this cozy
structure of this job that I'm in or
this relationship that I'm in because my
wants feel incongruent with with that
yeah the interesting thing about that in
general is that
not getting our wants met is not
actually as scary as as you know we want
or pipe psychology would say that it is
because we all have a dozen ones that we
haven't had met and when you know it
doesn't devastate us all the time I mean
how many people listening to this
podcast want to have 10 million dollars
more in the bank
hasn't happened
didn't devastate any of us
yeah I think it's the exposure the
vulnerability of showing your want and
having it rejected that's the the deeper
scare yeah or you know admitting that
you want 10 million dollars in the bank
and people saying
I'm judging you for that greedy yeah
yeah exactly and the amazing thing is
when you totally own a wand oftentimes
the want goes away almost immediately
yeah I really want 10 million dollars in
the bank and if you fully feel that all
the way and you're just like oh yeah 10
million you know
and just feel
that want
oftentimes it just it just starts
shifting and it's just like oh what I
want is security
and then it's like oh what I really want
is to feel empowered in every situation
but if you don't allow yourself to have
the want it can't move through you it's
just like if you don't allow yourself to
get angry you can't move through you
if you don't allow yourself to get sad
it can't move through you it's just
another emotion that needs to move
through you
and is so pleasant when it does
so it sounds like on one level you're
saying that it is an impulse and on
another level you're saying it's an
emotion can you get into that
distinction a little bit more that's a
great question let me feel inside for a
moment and really see what the
distinction is there
it seems like there's this impulse that
moves the way it's working in my system
is there's this impulse to move
to say these words to
be in front of my computer right now to
answer your question there's like this
natural impulse
and if that impulse meets any
any um
friction then this emotional experience
of wanting starts to occur and as this
emotional experience of wanting starts
to occur that becomes the feeling
that's the feeling that's there and if I
fully feel the feeling the friction
starts to fade
so there is the impulse side of the
wanting and then there is also the
emotional side of the wanting
and it's what distinguishes
I'm just gonna walk to the bathroom
right now and there's no
experience of wanting in that process
because there's no friction met
but as soon as that impulse meets any
level of friction then there's this
experience of wanting
and if you fully feel that experience it
turns deeply
into a loving expansive experience
and then that friction starts to go away
I want to hear one more story from you
like a a personal personal story where
you
relevant to how you arrived at all of
this I'd be happy to share a story Brett
um it's a story of shoulds and wants and
when I was in my earlier in my Venture
Capital career I had this idea that I
really should be making money
and it was kind of foreign to me because
it wasn't something that it was really
ever important to me before
and it was a combination of a feeling of
indebtedness to the investors and also
doing a good job and being valuable but
that this should started appearing
in my life at that point and
and then I was sitting in a hammock and
I read this news at some point I
remember the time specifically
and um I read this news
that
this
company that was formed with almost no
more money money sold for you know
multi-billions of dollars and it felt
like just an absolute kick in my stomach
just like a whack in my stomach
and I stopped and I went oh where where
did I feel that for the first time and I
traced it back not intellectually but
like my entire body traced back that
feeling to the first time I felt it and
the first time I felt it was
trying to please my father
as a kid and it was like Oh and it was
not pleasable at that time you know to
please him at least from my point of
view wasn't possible
and I saw that this whole money making
activity had nothing to do with actually
making money it had to and the should
behind it had nothing to do with it it
was like this very early should that I
had of should be pleasing my father that
that was a very ingrained should
and it was at that moment that I was
like okay hold on a second this doesn't
have anything to do with money and it's
a should
what do I want what I really want to do
here
and what I realized is like I just
wanted to create great cultures for
people I wanted to be a part of creating
great cultures for people to work in
and that changed everything it changed
my approach it changed my ability to be
effective it just changed everything as
soon as I just moved from
the should that was driven by an early
feeling
to a want which was very present and it
was just very immediate and all of a
sudden you know everything started to
open up and flourish in my life in a new
way
yeah wow thank you and um how do you
want to end this
hmm
I want to express a deep gratitude for
everybody who's listening
who's dedicating to understanding
themselves who
honors me with with choosing to be here
as part of this experience
my deepest one is just to is like a very
deep bow to everybody who's listening
and to say that
I wouldn't be here without people
who were bowing to me
I am grateful to be bowing to you
and my deep hope is that you will bow
to the people who appear before you
well Joe thank you for uh for taking the
time to help all of us build our culture
internally in our companies
thanks for doing the work man
thanks for listening to the art of
accomplishment if you enjoyed what you
heard today please subscribe and rate US
on your podcast app we'd love your
feedback so feel free to send us
questions or comments you can reach out
to us join our newsletter or check out
our courses at Art of accomplishment.com
foreign